Our IT company embarked on an ambitious project in January 2024 aimed at delivering a cutting-edge software solution
to our users and clients. The project was meticulously planned with a target launch date of June 1.

However, as the deadline approaches, it becomes apparent that several tasks are still in progress, and
there are unresolved bugs that need attention. The testing process, crucial for ensuring product quality,
has not yet begun. As a software engineer involved in the project, what aspects could have been handled better
to prevent the delays and issues experienced, such as incomplete tasks, unresolved bugs, and a delayed testing process?


For this activity, evaluate the situation and offer your suggestions on areas where improvements could have been made


Given the circumstances of falling behind schedule, based on my evaluation as a Software Engineer:

    Although the project management methodology we used and as to how it was handled was not mentioned,
    I want to highlight these areas: 

        1. Timeline (Managerial)
            - Was the capacity of our development team properly assessed?
            - Was there any Risk Assessment done before the project started?
            - Was complacency an unseen issue because the project was "meticulously" planned?

        2. The Delegation of the tasks and its details (Development Team)
            - "What was expected" vs. "What was understood"
            - Were the buffers included in each story estimation too short or too long?
            - Was the development team properly self-managing their tasks well?

        3. Bug fixing
            - Were the issues/bugs filed properly evaluated according to priority and severity?

    The suggestions that I can offer for these areas are:

    - Knowing the team, and gauging their capacities from time to time to make the performance constraint
      a bit more clear for the project.

    - Proactively applying Risk Management to the project will significantly
      reduce the impact to its timeline and budget, falling behind and having to pay for overtime.

    - Good communication with the client, the business analyst or product manager/owner, and the development team
      helps in clarifying doubts and uncertainties regarding the client's technical requirements. This
      directly affects positively the project's constraints:

        the performance constraint, better product quality due to clear reqts;
        the time constraint, reduces the time spent on research and analysis of an unclear requirement;
        the cost constraint, minimized work pay;

      it will also minimize errors in development and remediation, and reduce the time consumption
      during the testing process (QAT).

    Additionally, if there's someone in the project team that excels in self-management of their tasks,
    they could be coordinated to pass on tips, advices, and advanced techniques they know to their teammates. And if
    there are opportunities for up-skilling the project team members, the manager could consider about it.

    These suggestions may help us in our upcoming projects in preventing this type of circumstance of falling
    behind schedule in the development and testing phases.